{"title": "Robert Haining\n", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Haining", "tags": ["Category:1882 births", "Category:1959 deaths", "Category:Alumni of the Royal College of Defence Studies", "Category:British Army generals of World War II", "Category:British Army personnel of World War I", "Category:British military personnel of the 1936\u20131939 Arab revolt in Palestine", "Category:Companions of the Distinguished Service Order", "Category:English justices of the peace", "Category:Graduates of the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich", "Category:Graduates of the Staff College, Camberley", "Category:Knights Commander of the Order of the Bath", "Category:Lord-Lieutenants of Surrey", "Category:People educated at Uppingham School", "Category:People from Chester", "Category:Royal Artillery officers", "Category:Use dmy dates from April 2012", "Category:Webarchive template wayback links"], "text": "General Sir Robert Hadden Haining,  (28 July 1882 \u2013 15 September 1959) was a senior British Army officer during the Second World War.\n\nEarly life and education\nHaining was born in Chester, the eldest son of Dr. William Haining and Mary Ellen Roberts. He was educated at Uppingham School and at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich.\n\nMilitary career\nHaining was commissioned into the Royal Artillery in 1901. He served during the First World War, and after he became a barrister at Lincoln's Inn.After attending the Staff College, Camberley, Haining was appointed Assistant Adjutant and Quartermaster General for 2nd Division based at Aldershot in 1928 and then became a General Staff Officer in 4th Division at Colchester in 1930. He served in Military Operations in the War Office from 1931 to 1933, becoming Deputy Director of Military Operations and Intelligence at the War Office in 1933. He became Commandant of the Imperial Defence College in 1935 and Director of Military Operations and Intelligence at the War Office in 1936. He was appointed General Officer Commanding British Forces in Palestine and Trans-Jordan in 1938.At the outbreak of the Second World War, Haining was appointed General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Western Command and moved on to be Vice Chief of the Imperial General Staff in 1940. He was appointed Intendant General for Middle East Forces in 1941: Prime Minister Winston Churchill described the role of an Intendant General to be that of \"serving the Commander-in-Chief with the largest possible measure of supplies\". He retired from the British Army in 1942.Haining was Colonel Commandant of the Royal Artillery from 1939 to 1950.\n\nRetirement and death\nIn retirement Haining became active in civil life and was Lord Lieutenant of Surrey.Haining died in September 1959, aged 77.Following his death, his friend George Richard Hodges Nugent (later Baron Nugent of Guildford) wrote to The Times to remark on Haining's character and post-retirement life:\n\nWhen he resigned from the Army, despite weighty grounds for complaint, he wasted no time in repining but immediately made himself available for public work of all kinds, from the parish to the county. His talents and personality were not allowed to be wasted for long; he quickly became chairman of his local Bench of Magistrates, a county councillor, and, in 1949 Lord Lieutenant of the county of Surrey, besides a host of lesser appointments. There was no function so great that his presence did not add distinction to it. and no function too small for him to give his time and energy to it. Every day was a working day for him. Saturdays and Sundays, included, and the number of British Legion parades and services, large and small, attended by him must be legion indeed! When he returned home after his last evening engagement he would embark on his large personal and official correspondence, all written in his own strong characteristic handwriting, for secretarial staff was not within his means. His outstanding gift was his broad human sympathy and understanding: every-one great or small who met him felt that they met him on the level and could trust him absolutely. His great energy, shrewd common sense and active brain will be much missed from a wide range of administrative work in the county. Even more, his warm, lovable personality will be missed by a multitude of men and women in every walk of life who knew him as their friend.\n\n\n== References =="}