{"title": "Frederick Kisch\n", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederick_Kisch", "tags": ["Category:1888 births", "Category:1943 deaths", "Category:British Army generals of World War II", "Category:British Army personnel of World War I", "Category:British Jews", "Category:British military personnel killed in World War II", "Category:British military personnel of the 1936\u20131939 Arab revolt in Palestine", "Category:Commanders of the Order of the British Empire", "Category:Companions of the Distinguished Service Order", "Category:Companions of the Order of the Bath", "Category:Heads of the Jewish Agency for Israel", "Category:Jewish Agency for Israel", "Category:Jews in Mandatory Palestine", "Category:Landmine victims", "Category:Officiers of the L\u00e9gion d'honneur", "Category:People from Darjeeling", "Category:Recipients of the Croix de Guerre 1914\u20131918 (France)", "Category:Recipients of the Order of Wen-Hu", "Category:Royal Engineers officers", "Category:Short description is different from Wikidata", "Category:Use Indian English from October 2017", "Category:Use dmy dates from October 2017", "Category:Wikipedia articles with CWGC identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with NLI identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with NTA identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with WORLDCATID identifiers", "Category:Zionists"], "text": "Frederick Hermann Kisch CBE, CB, DSO (23 August 1888 \u2013 7 April 1943) was a decorated British Army officer and Zionist leader. A Brigadier, he was the highest ranking Jew to serve in the British Army.\n\nEarly military service\nFrederick Kisch was born to a British-Jewish family in the town of Darjeeling, India on 23 August 1888, where his father Michael was head of the Indian Postal Service. After some time, Kisch family moved back to England, where Frederick attended the Clifton College and subsequently the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst. He joined the Royal Engineers in 1909 and served with them in World War I in France and the Middle East theatres.During his war service, he was wounded three times, and decorated with Distinguished Service Order for gallantry in action. He was also decorated by the government of France with the Croix de guerre with Palm. Due to his wounds, he was declared temporarily unfit for frontline service and was subsequently transferred to the Military Intelligence Corps, where he served for the rest of the war. He also served as general staff officer to General Sir George Macdonogh. During the war, he reached the rank of lieutenant colonel.\nHe was appointed a member of the British delegation to the 1919 Paris Peace Conference.\n\nInterwar period\nHe joined the Zionist Organization in 1922, where he headed the political department until being succeeded by Chaim Arlosoroff. He also served as Zionist Commission head for the Jerusalem region between 1923 and 1931. His British military background allowed him to cultivate excellent relations with the British administration of Mandatory Palestine as well as Arab leaders including Sharif Hussein of Mecca and his son King Abdullah I of Jordan. Kisch was awarded the Order of Wen-Hu (4th Class) by the Republic of China in 1921.\n\nWorld War II\nKisch was recalled to active service in 1939 at the outbreak of the World War II. He was promoted to the rank of brigadier and assigned to the British Eighth Army, where he became commanding officer of the Royal Engineers in the North African Campaign.Kisch was killed in Tunisia on 7 April 1943 when he stepped on a landmine during the Battle of Wadi Akarit. He had been organising reconstruction of bridge, essential to the Allied advance. He is buried at Enfidaville War Cemetery in Tunisia.\n\nLegacy\nThe Israeli moshav Kfar Kisch was named after him.\nIn 2015, his grandson Yoav was elected to the Knesset.\n\nReferences\n\n\n== External links =="}