{"title": "St. Stephen's College massacre\n", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._Stephen%27s_College_massacre", "tags": ["Category:1941 in Hong Kong", "Category:1941 in military history", "Category:Battle of Hong Kong", "Category:December 1941 events", "Category:Gang rape in Asia", "Category:Japanese occupation of Hong Kong", "Category:Japanese war crimes", "Category:Mass murder in 1941", "Category:Massacres committed by Japan", "Category:Massacres in China", "Category:Massacres in the 1940s", "Category:Rape in China", "Category:Second Sino-Japanese War crimes", "Category:Use Hong Kong English from April 2019", "Category:Use dmy dates from April 2019", "Category:Wartime sexual violence in World War II", "Category:World War II stubs"], "text": "The St. Stephen's College massacre involved a series of war crimes committed by the Imperial Japanese Army on 25 December 1941 during the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong at St. Stephen's College.\n\nIncident\nSeveral hours before the British surrendered on Christmas day at the end of the Battle of Hong Kong, Japanese soldiers entered St. Stephen's College, which was being used as a hospital on the front line at the time.  The Japanese were met by two doctors, Black and Witney, who were marched away, and were later found dead and mutilated.  They then burst into the wards and bayoneted a number of British, Canadian and Indian wounded soldiers who were incapable of hiding.  The survivors and their nurses were imprisoned in two rooms upstairs. Later, a second wave of Japanese troops arrived after the fighting had moved further south, away from the school. They removed two Canadians from one of the rooms, and mutilated and killed them outside. Many of the nurses next door were then dragged off to be gang raped, and later found mutilated. The following morning, after the surrender, the Japanese ordered that all these bodies should be cremated just outside the hall. Other soldiers who had died in the defence of Stanley were burned with those killed in the massacre, making well over 100 altogether.\n\nAftermath\nWhen the college and the grounds of Stanley Prison became a civilian internment camp, the internees gathered up the burnt remains, shards of bones, buttons and charred effects from the cremation, and then buried them. A gravestone marks the spot where these items were interred at Stanley Cemetery.\n\nReferences\nExternal links\nSt Stephen's college trail\n(in Chinese) Confession of a Japanese soldier who participated in the cannibalism & rape of medical staff at St Stephen's , September 2012"}