{"title": "James H. Howard\n", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_H._Howard", "tags": ["Category:1913 births", "Category:1995 deaths", "Category:Burials at Arlington National Cemetery", "Category:Flying Tigers", "Category:Pomona College alumni", "Category:Short description matches Wikidata", "Category:United States Air Force generals", "Category:United States Army Air Forces Medal of Honor recipients", "Category:United States Army Air Forces officers", "Category:United States Army Air Forces pilots of World War II", "Category:Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the United States Army Center of Military History", "Category:Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with WORLDCATID identifiers", "Category:World War II recipients of the Medal of Honor"], "text": "James Howell Howard (April 8, 1913 \u2013 March 18, 1995) was a general in the United States Air Force and the only fighter pilot in the European Theater of Operations in World War II  to receive the Medal of Honor \u2014 the United States military's highest decoration. Howard had the rare distinction of being an ace in two operational theaters during World War II, with over 6 kills with the Flying Tigers of the American Volunteer Group (AVG) in the Pacific and 6 kills over Europe with the United States Air Force. CBS commentator Andy Rooney, then a wartime reporter for Stars and Stripes, called Howard's exploits \"the greatest fighter pilot story of World War II\". In later life, Howard was a successful businessman, author, and airport director.\n\nEarly life\nBorn on April 8, 1913, in Canton (now Guangzhou), China, where his American parents lived at the time while his ophthalmologist father was teaching eye surgery there, Howard returned with his family to St. Louis, Missouri, in 1927. After graduating from John Burroughs School in St. Louis, he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Pomona College in Claremont, California, in 1937, intending to follow his father into medicine. Shortly before graduation, however, Howard decided that the life of a Naval Aviator was more appealing than six years of medical school and internship, and he entered the United States Navy as a naval aviation cadet.\n\nUnited States Navy Service\nHoward began his flight training in January 1938 at Naval Air Station Pensacola, earning his wings a year later. In 1939, he was assigned as a U.S. Navy pilot aboard the aircraft carrier USS Enterprise (CV-6), based at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. In June 1941, he left the Navy to become a P-40 fighter pilot with the American Volunteer Group (AVG), the famous Flying Tigers, in Burma. He flew 56 missions and was credited with shooting down six Japanese airplanes.\n\nUnited States Army Air Forces\nAfter the Flying Tigers were disbanded on July 4, 1942, Howard returned to the U.S. and was commissioned a captain in the Army Air Forces. In 1943, he was promoted to the rank of major and given command of the 356th Fighter Squadron in the 354th Fighter Group, based in the United Kingdom.\n\nOn January 11, 1944, Howard flew his P-51 unaccompanied into some 30 Luftwaffe fighters that were attacking a formation of American B-17 Flying Fortress bombers over Oschersleben, Germany. For more than a half-hour, Howard defended the heavy bombers of the 401st Bomb Group against the swarm of Luftwaffe fighters, repeatedly attacking the enemy and shooting down as many as six. Even after Howard's P-51 ran out of ammunition, he continued to dive on enemy airplanes. The leader of the bomber formation later reported, \"For sheer determination and guts, it was the greatest exhibition I've ever seen. It was a case of one lone American against what seemed to be the entire Luftwaffe. He was all over the wing, across and around it. They can't give that boy a big enough award.\"\n\nThe following week, the Army Air Forces held a press conference in London at which Major Howard described the attack to reporters, including the BBC, the Associated Press, CBS reporter Walter Cronkite, and Andy Rooney, then a reporter for Stars and Stripes. The story was a media sensation, prompting articles such as \"Mustang Whip\" in the Saturday Evening Post, \"Fighting at 425 Miles Per Hour\" in Popular Science, and \"One Man Air Force\" in True magazine. \"An attack by a single fighter on four or five times his own number wasn't uncommon,\" wrote a fellow World War II fighter pilot in his postwar memoirs of Howard's performance, \"but a deliberate attack by a single fighter against thirty-plus enemy fighters without tactical advantage of height or surprise is rare almost to the point of extinction.\" The following month, Howard was promoted to lieutenant colonel and in June 1944, he was presented the Medal of Honor by General Carl Spaatz for his January 11 valor. That same month, Howard helped direct fighter plane cover for the Allies' Normandy landings on D-Day.\n\nAir Force\nIn January 1945, Howard was promoted to colonel and assigned as base commander of Pinellas Army Airfield (now St. Petersburg-Clearwater International Airport) in Florida. With the establishment of the United States Air Force as a separate service in 1947, then-Colonel Howard was transferred to the Air Force. In 1948, he was promoted to the rank of brigadier general in the U.S. Air Force Reserve, commanding the Air Force Reserve's 96th Bombardment Group.\n\nLater years\nAs a civilian after the war, Howard was Director of Aeronautics for St. Louis, Missouri, managing Lambert Field while maintaining his military status as a brigadier general in the United States Air Force Reserve. He later founded Howard Research, a systems engineering business, which he eventually sold to Control Data Corporation. He married Mary Balles in 1948 in a military wedding ceremony. In later years, they were divorced and Howard then married Florence Buteau.\nIn the 1970s, Howard retired to Belleair Bluffs in Pinellas County, Florida. In 1991, he wrote an autobiography, Roar of the Tiger, chiefly devoted to his wartime experiences. On January 11, 1994, the 50th anniversary of the Oschlersleben attack, the Board of County Commissioners in Pinellas County proclaimed \"General Howard Day\" and presented him with a plaque. A permanent exhibit honoring General Howard was also unveiled in the terminal building of the county's St. Petersburg-Clearwater International Airport. Another exhibit paying tribute to Howard was subsequently dedicated at his alma mater, the John Burroughs School in St. Louis.\nOn January 27, 1995, Howard made his last public appearance when he was guest of honor at the annual banquet of the West Central Florida Council of the Boy Scouts of America, in Clearwater, Florida. He died six weeks later at the nearby Bay Pines Veterans Hospital and is buried at Arlington National Cemetery, survived by two sisters.Howard Avenue in the Market Common District of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina is named in tribute to Howard, who was a commander of the relocated 354th Fighter-Day Group at nearby Myrtle Beach Air Force Base. There is a memorial marker with photos and an inscription in Market Common Valor Memorial Garden at the intersection of Hackler Street and Howard Avenue: 33\u00b040.062\u2032N 78\u00b056.368\u2032W.\n\nMilitary awards\nHoward received the following awards:\n\n  Command pilot  Armed Forces Reserve Medal with silver hourglass\n  Republic of China War Memorial Medal\n\nMedal of Honor citation\nThe citation accompanying the Medal of Honor awarded to Lieutenant Colonel James H. Howard on 5 June 1944, by Lieutenant General Carl Spaatz reads:\n\n \n\nFor conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty in action with the enemy near Oschersleben, Germany, on 11 January 1944. On that day Col. Howard was the leader of a group of P-51 aircraft providing support for a heavy bomber formation on a long-range mission deep in enemy territory. As Col. Howard's group met the bombers in the target area the bomber force was attacked by numerous enemy fighters. Col. Howard, with his group, at once engaged the enemy and himself destroyed a German ME. 110. As a result of this attack Col. Howard lost contact with his group, and at once returned to the level of the bomber formation. He then saw that the bombers were being heavily attacked by enemy airplanes and that no other friendly fighters were at hand. While Col. Howard could have waited to attempt to assemble his group before engaging the enemy, he chose instead to attack single-handed a formation of more than 30 German airplanes. With utter disregard for his own safety he immediately pressed home determined attacks for some 30 minutes, during which time he destroyed 3 enemy airplanes and probably destroyed and damaged others. Toward the end of this engagement 3 of his guns went out of action and his fuel supply was becoming dangerously low. Despite these handicaps and the almost insuperable odds against him, Col. Howard continued his aggressive action in an attempt to protect the bombers from the numerous fighters. His skill, courage, and intrepidity on this occasion set an example of heroism which will be an inspiration to the U.S. Armed Forces.\n\nSee also\nList of Medal of Honor recipients\nList of Medal of Honor recipients for World War II\n\nReferences\nThis article incorporates public domain material from websites or documents of the United States Army Center of Military History.\n\nFurther reading\nFreeman, Roger A., Airfields of the ninth, then and now, After the Battle\nMclaughlin, William (2016-02-02). \"'the greatest fighter pilot story of WWII' held off 30 German fighters from attacking a squadron of B-17 bombers for over half an hour\". War History Online. Retrieved 2018-11-22.\n\n\n== External links =="}