{"title": "The Last Emperor\n", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Last_Emperor", "tags": ["Category:1980s biographical drama films", "Category:1980s historical films", "Category:1987 drama films", "Category:1987 films", "Category:Best Drama Picture Golden Globe winners", "Category:Best Film BAFTA Award winners", "Category:Best Foreign Film C\u00e9sar Award winners", "Category:Best Picture Academy Award winners", "Category:Biographical films about royalty", "Category:British epic films", "Category:British films", "Category:Chinese epic films", "Category:Chinese films", "Category:Cultural depictions of Empress Dowager Cixi", "Category:Cultural depictions of Puyi", "Category:English-language films", "Category:Films about the Cultural Revolution", "Category:Films directed by Bernardo Bertolucci", "Category:Films produced by Jeremy Thomas", "Category:Films scored by Ryuichi Sakamoto", "Category:Films set in 1987", "Category:Films set in 20th-century Qing dynasty", "Category:Films set in Beijing", "Category:Films set in Manchukuo", "Category:Films set in Shanghai", "Category:Films set in the 1900s", "Category:Films set in the 1910s", "Category:Films set in the 1920s", "Category:Films set in the 1930s", "Category:Films set in the 1940s", "Category:Films set in the 1950s", "Category:Films set in the 1960s", "Category:Films shot in China", "Category:Films shot in Italy", "Category:Films that won the Best Costume Design Academy Award", "Category:Films that won the Best Original Score Academy Award", "Category:Films that won the Best Sound Mixing Academy Award", "Category:Films whose art director won the Best Art Direction Academy Award", "Category:Films whose cinematographer won the Best Cinematography Academy Award", "Category:Films whose director won the Best Directing Academy Award", "Category:Films whose director won the Best Director Golden Globe", "Category:Films whose editor won the Best Film Editing Academy Award", "Category:Films whose writer won the Best Adapted Screenplay Academy Award", "Category:Italian epic films", "Category:Italian films", "Category:Japanese-language films", "Category:Mandarin-language films", "Category:Second Sino-Japanese War films", "Category:Short description is different from Wikidata", "Category:Template film date with 3 release dates", "Category:Use dmy dates from June 2019", "Category:Wikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with WorldCat-VIAF identifiers"], "text": "The Last Emperor (Italian: L'ultimo imperatore; Chinese: \u672b\u4ee3\u7687\u5e1d) is a 1987 epic biographical drama film, directed by Bernardo Bertolucci, about the life of Puyi, the last Emperor of China, whose 1964 autobiography was the basis for the screenplay written by Bertolucci and Mark Peploe.  Independently produced by Jeremy Thomas, it was directed by Bertolucci and released in 1987 by Columbia Pictures. Puyi's life is depicted from his ascent to the throne as a small boy to his imprisonment and political rehabilitation by the Communist Party of China.\nThe film stars John Lone as Puyi, with Joan Chen, Peter O'Toole, Ruocheng Ying, Victor Wong, Dennis Dun, Ryuichi Sakamoto, Maggie Han, Ric Young, Vivian Wu, and Chen Kaige. It was the first Western feature film authorized by the People's Republic of China to film in the Forbidden City in Beijing. At the 60th Academy Awards it won nine Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director.\n\nPlot\nIn 1950, Puyi has been kept in custody for five years, since the Red Army captured him during the Soviet invasion of Manchuria at the end of World War II. In the recently established People's Republic of China, Puyi arrives as a political prisoner and war criminal at the Fushun Prison. Soon after his arrival, Puyi attempts suicide, but is quickly revived and told he must stand trial.\n42 years earlier, in 1908, a toddler Puyi is summoned to the Forbidden City by the dying Empress Dowager Cixi. After telling him that the previous emperor had died earlier that day, with her last words, Cixi tells Puyi that he will be the next emperor. After his coronation, Puyi, frightened by his new surroundings, repeatedly expresses his wish to go home, which is denied. Despite having scores of palace eunuchs and maids to wait on him, his only real friend is his wet nurse, Ar Mo, who accompanied him and his father to the palace on the Empress Dowager's summons.\nThe next section of the film continues the series of chronological flashbacks showing Puyi's early life intermixed with his imprisonment in the 1950s. His upbringing is confined entirely to the imperial palace, which he is not allowed to leave. When he is about ten, he is visited by his younger brother, Pujie, who tells him he is no longer Emperor and that China is a republic; that same day, Ar Mo is made to leave him. In 1919, the kindly Scotsman Reginald Johnston is appointed as Puyi's tutor and gives him a Western-style education. Puyi becomes increasingly desirous to leave the Forbidden City. Johnston, wary of the courtiers' expensive lifestyle, convinces Puyi that the best way of achieving this is by marrying; Puyi subsequently weds Wanrong, with Wenxiu as a secondary consort.\nNow the master of his own home, Puyi sets about reforming the Forbidden City, including expelling the thieving palace eunuchs. However, in 1924, he himself is expelled from the palace and exiled to Tientsin following the Beijing Coup. He leads a decadent life as a playboy and Anglophile, and he sides with Japan after the Mukden Incident. During this time Wenxiu divorces him, but Wanrong remains and eventually succumbs to opium addiction. In 1934 the Japanese crown him \"Emperor\" of their puppet state of Manchukuo, though his supposed political supremacy is undermined at every turn. Wanrong gives birth to a child, but the baby is murdered at birth and proclaimed stillborn. He remains nominal ruler of the region until his capture by the Red Army.\nUnder the \"Communist re-education programme\" for political prisoners, Puyi is coerced by his interrogators to formally renounce his forced collaboration with the Japanese invaders for war crimes during the Second Sino-Japanese War. Finally, after a heated discussion with the camp commandant and upon watching a film detailing the wartime atrocities committed by the Japanese, Puyi recants his previous stance and is considered rehabilitated by the government; he is subsequently set free in 1959.\nThe final minutes of the film show a flash-forward to 1967 during the rise of Mao Zedong's cult of personality and the beginning of the Cultural Revolution. By now, Puyi has become a simple gardener who lives a peasant proletarian existence. On his way home from work, he happens upon a Red Guard parade, complete with children playing pentatonic music on accordions en masse and dancers who dance the rejection of landlordism by the Communists. His prison camp commander, who helped him greatly during his rehabilitation, is one of the political prisoners now punished as an anti-revolutionary in the parade, forced to wear a dunce cap and a sandwich board bearing punitive slogans.\nPuyi later visits the Forbidden City as an ordinary tourist. He meets an assertive little boy wearing the red scarf of the Pioneer Movement. The young Communist orders Puyi to step away from the throne. However, Puyi proves to the boy that he was indeed the Son of Heaven, proceeding to approach the throne. Behind it, Puyi finds a 60-year-old pet cricket that he was given by palace official Chen Baochen on his coronation day and gives it to the child. Amazed by the gift, the boy turns to talk to Puyi, but the emperor has disappeared.\nIn 1987, a tour guide is leading a group through the palace. Stopping in front of the throne, the guide sums up Puyi's life in a few, brief sentences, concluding that he died in 1967.\n\nCast\nProduction\nDevelopment\nBernardo Bertolucci proposed the film to the Chinese government as one of two possible projects \u2013 the other was an adaptation of La Condition humaine (Man's Fate) by Andr\u00e9 Malraux. The Chinese preferred The Last Emperor. Producer Jeremy Thomas managed to raise the $25 million budget for his ambitious independent production single-handedly. At one stage, he scoured the phone book for potential financiers. Bertolucci was given complete freedom by the authorities to shoot in The Forbidden City, which had never before been opened up for use in a Western film. For the first ninety minutes of the film, Bertolucci and Storaro made full use of its visual splendour.\n\nFilming\n19,000 extras were needed over the course of the film. The People's Liberation Army was drafted in to accommodate.In a 2010 interview with Bilge Ebiri for Vulture.com, Bertolucci recounted the shooting of the Cultural Revolution scene:\n\nBefore shooting the parade scene, I put together four or five young directors whom I had met, [including] Chen Kaige \u2014 who also plays a part in the film, he\u2019s the captain of the guard \u2014 and Zhang Yimou. I asked them about the Cultural Revolution. And suddenly it was like I was watching a psychodrama: They started to act out and cry, it was extraordinary. I think there is a relationship between these scenes in The Last Emperor and in 1900. But many things changed between those two films, for me and for the world.\n\nSoundtrack\nWhile not included on the album soundtrack, the following music was played in the film: \"Am I Blue?\" (1929), \"Auld Lang Syne\" (uncredited), and \"China Boy\" (1922) (uncredited).\n\nRelease\nHemdale Film Corporation acquired all North American distribution rights to the film on behalf of producer Thomas, who raised a large sum of the budget himself. Hemdale, in turn, licensed theatrical rights to Columbia Pictures, who were initially reluctant to release it, and only after shooting was completed did the head of Columbia agree to distribute The Last Emperor in North America. Hemdale licensed its video rights to Nelson Entertainment, which released the film on VHS and Laserdisc. The film also received a Laserdisc release in Australia in 1992, through Columbia Tri-Star Video. Years later, Artisan Entertainment acquired the rights to the film and released both the theatrical and extended versions on home video. In February 2008 The Criterion Collection (under license from now-rights-holder Thomas) released a four disc Director-Approved edition, again containing both theatrical and extended versions. Criterion released a Blu-ray version on 6 January 2009.The Last Emperor had an unusual run in theatres. It did not enter the weekend box office top 10 until its twelfth week in which the film reached #7 after increasing its gross by 168% from the previous week and more than tripling its theatre count (this was the weekend before it was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture). Following that week, the film lingered around the top 10 for 8 weeks before peaking at #4 in its 22nd week (the weekend after winning the Oscar) (increasing its weekend gross by 306% and nearly doubling its theatre count from 460 to 877) and spending 6 more weeks in the weekend box office top 10. Were it not for this late push, The Last Emperor would have joined The English Patient, Amadeus, and The Hurt Locker as the only Best Picture winners to not enter the weekend box office top 5 since these numbers were first recorded in 1982.\nThe film was converted into 3D and shown in the Cannes Classics section at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nCritical response\nThe film received critical acclaim. On Rotten Tomatoes, it has an 89% \"Certified Fresh\" score based on 72 reviews, with an average rating of 8.04/10. The site's consensus states: \"While decidedly imperfect, Bernardo Bertolucci's epic is still a feast for the eyes.\" Metacritic reports a 76 out of 100 rating based on 15 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".Roger Ebert was notably enthusiastic in his praise of the film, awarding it four stars out of four; he wrote that \"Bertolucci is able to make Pu Yi's imprisonment seem all the more ironic because this entire film was shot on location inside the People's Republic of China, and he was even given permission to film inside the Forbidden City \u2014 a vast, medieval complex covering some 250 acres and containing 9,999 rooms (only heaven, the Chinese believed, had 10,000 rooms). It probably is unforgivably bourgeois to admire a film because of its locations, but in the case of \"The Last Emperor\" the narrative cannot be separated from the awesome presence of the Forbidden City, and from Bertolucci's astonishing use of locations, authentic costumes and thousands of extras to create the everyday reality of this strange little boy.\" Jonathan Rosenbaum, comparing The Last Emperor favourably to Steven Spielberg's Empire of the Sun, claimed that \"[a]t best, apart from a few snapshots, Empire of the Sun teaches us something about the inside of one director's brain. The Last Emperor incidentally and secondarily does that too; but it also teaches us something about the lives of a billion people with whom we share this planet\u2014and better yet, makes us want to learn still more about them.\"\n\nAwards\nAt the 60th Academy Awards, the film won all nine Oscars for which it was nominated:\nBest Picture (Jeremy Thomas)\nBest Director (Bernardo Bertolucci)\nBest Art Direction (Art Direction: Ferdinando Scarfiotti; Set Decoration: Bruno Cesari and Osvaldo Desideri)\nBest Cinematography (Vittorio Storaro)\nBest Costume Design (James Acheson)\nBest Film Editing (Gabriella Cristiani)\nBest Original Score (Ryuichi Sakamoto, David Byrne and Cong Su)\nBest Sound (Bill Rowe and Ivan Sharrock)\nBest Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium (Bernardo Bertolucci and Mark Peploe)45th Golden Globe AwardsBest Film - Drama\nBest Director\nBest Original Score\nBest ScreenplayOther awardsBAFTA Award for Best Film\nBAFTA Award for Best Costume Design\nBAFTA Award for Best Makeup and Hair\nDavid di Donatello for Best Film\nDavid di Donatello for Best Director\nDavid di Donatello for Best Script\nNastro d'Argento for Best Director\nDirectors Guild of America Award\nC\u00e9sar Award for Best Foreign Film\n\nHistorical omissions\nIn Japan, the Shochiku Fuji Company edited out a thirty-second sequence from The Last Emperor depicting the Rape of Nanjing before distributing it to Japanese theatres, without Bertolucci's consent. The Rape of Nanjing \u2014 in which hundreds of thousands of Chinese civilians were brutalized and massacred by the Imperial Japanese Army \u2014 is an event disputed by some Japanese, and a stumbling block in China\u2013Japan relations. Bertolucci was furious at Shochiku Fuji's interference with his film, calling it \"revolting\". The company quickly restored the scene, blaming \"confusion and misunderstanding\" for the edit while opining that the Rape sequence was \"too sensational\" for Japanese audiences.Jeremy Thomas recalled the approval process for the screenplay with the Chinese government: \"It was less difficult than working with the studio system. They made script notes and made references to change some of the names, then the stamp went on and the door opened and we came.\"\n\nAlternate versions\nThe film's theatrical release ran 160 minutes. Deemed too long to show in a single three-hour block on television but too short to spread out over two nights, an extended version was created which runs 218 minutes. Cinematographer Vittorio Storaro and director Bernardo Bertolucci have confirmed that this extended version was indeed created as a television miniseries and does not represent a \"director's cut\".The Criterion Collection 2008 version of four DVDs adds commentary by Ian Buruma, composer David Byrne, and the Director's interview with Jeremy Isaacs (ASIN: B000ZM1MIW, ISBN 978-1-60465-014-3).  It includes a booklet featuring an essay by David Thomson, interviews with production designer Ferdinando Scarfiotti and actor Ying Ruocheng, a reminiscence by Bertolucci, and an essay and production-diary extracts from Fabien S. Gerard.\n\nSee also\nBig Shot's Funeral, a film with a plot that involves a fictional remake of The Last Emperor\nHistorical drama films set in Asia\n\nReferences\nExternal links\nThe Last Emperor on IMDb\nThe Last Emperor at Rotten Tomatoes\nThe Last Emperor at Metacritic\n\"The Last Emperor, or The Manchurian Candidate\"\u2014An essay by David Thomson at the Criterion Collection"}