{"title": "Purple Sunset\n", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purple_Sunset", "tags": ["Category:2000s war drama films", "Category:2001 films", "Category:Chinese films", "Category:Chinese war drama films", "Category:Films directed by Feng Xiaoning", "Category:Films set in 1945", "Category:Films set in China", "Category:Films set in Manchukuo", "Category:Films set in Moscow", "Category:Films set in Russia", "Category:Films set in forests", "Category:Films set in the 1940s", "Category:Films shot in China", "Category:Mandarin-language films", "Category:Second Sino-Japanese War films", "Category:Short description matches Wikidata", "Category:Template film date with 1 release date", "Category:World War II films"], "text": "Purple Sunset (Chinese: \u7d2b\u65e5; pinyin: Z\u012dr\u00ec) is a 2001 Chinese war drama film written and directed by Feng Xiaoning. Feng also acted as the film's cinematographer.\nPurple Sunset is an anti-war film set in August 1945, at the time when the Japanese were in the throes of defeat during World War II and losing control of mainland China. The film won Best Special Effects at the Huabiao Awards and Best Cinematography at the Golden Rooster Award.  It was also voted Best Feature by the audience during the 2001 Hawaii International Film Festival. Feng considered it the last of his  \"War and Peace\" (\u6218\u4e89\u4e0e\u548c\u5e73) trilogy, preceded by Red River Valley (1997), and Lover's Grief over the Yellow River (1999).\n\nPlot\nThe film begins with a flashback of an elderly Chinese man Yang in 2000 who is interviewed and who begins reminiscing about the Second Sino-Japanese War, prompted on by a journalist. He grasps an old okiagari-koboshi musical doll which brings his memories back to August 1945, near the end of the war.\nIn 1945 Yang, a Hebei peasant in his 30s, was captured by Japanese imperial soldiers, and was brought to the Daxing'anling area near Manchuria (bordering the Soviet Union) after the Japanese slaughtered his aged mother. He was put in a firing squad to be executed. The firing killed everyone in line but Yang. As a Japanese soldier reloaded the machine gun, a Soviet T-34 tank knocked over the wall which the captives were lined. The tank crushes a Japanese soldier and saves Yang's life. Yang was the sole survivor and was put under the charge of Nadja, a young female Soviet lieutenant and her comrades. Nadja was tasked with escorting Yang to headquarters, but their truck driver took a wrong turn and strayed into Japanese lines. Most of Soviet soldiers on the truck were killed in the ensuing skirmish but Nadja, a Soviet tank soldier and Yang escaped into a forested area.\nAs the three crossed a bridge, they came under a grenade attack from a teenage Japanese schoolgirl named Akiyoko and a fellow schoolgirl in a wooden shed. The fellow schoolgirl committed suicide. The three took Akiyoko captive and forced her to lead them out of the vast forest as the girl knew the way out. Akiyoko brought the three to a minefield where the tank soldier was blown up by a land mine. Nadja was infuriated by Akiyoko's cunning, but decided not to kill her as she was their sole guide. Nadja carries very little food.\nAt many points both Yang and Nadja were tempted to kill Akiyoko, but eventually saved her life from drowning in a quagmire. Conflicting feelings of mistrust and friendship dogged all three as they rely on one another to survive. Although Nadja wanted to move north to meet up with the Soviet troops, Akiyoko convinced Yang moving south was the only way out of the forest. At one point, Nadja strayed from her two partners whilst searching for food, but was able to find her way back after hearing Yang firing her PPSh-41 submachine gun at an attacking tiger.\nThe three eventually found their way to the same location where they confronted the Japanese troops, and Yang and Nadja realized they have been tricked by Akiyoko. A tearful Akiyoko explained she was trying to get them to surrender to the Japanese troops so that they could get food and lodging at the camp. The three ended up back at the Soviet truck which they had earlier left during the skirmish with the Japanese troops, where the radio began to announce Emperor Hirohito's unconditional surrender to the Allied troops. Akiyoko, shocked by Japan's loss, grabbed Nadja's PPSh-41 and took aim at Yang and Nadja. Yang advanced on Akiyoko, placing the muzzle of the gun against his chest. Akiyoko was unable to fire the gun, and convulsed into sobs. Nadja then discovered that Yang had removed the cartridges from the gun before Akiyoko picked it up.\nThe war having now ended, Yang urged Akiyoko to go back to Japan and live a good life. Akiyoko decided to return to find her childhood sweetheart, who was conscripted as a fighter pilot by the Japanese air force. The three then witnessed a group of Japanese soldiers and civilians committing mass suicide as they could not accept the fact their country had surrendered. Akiyoko mistakenly thought they were not informed of the surrender and ran to stop their foolish acts, but was shot in her head by a Japanese captain. Akiyoko's okiagari-koboshi doll rolled out of her grasp and she died.\nConsumed by fury and vengeance, Yang and Nadja drove the truck and attacked the remaining Japanese soldiers, who were charging at them. After all of Japanese soldiers were killed, Yang picked up Akiyoko's okiagari-koboshi doll. The film then fast-forwards to present day where an elderly, wheelchair-bound Nadja places flowers on Poklonnaya Gora war memorial with the gigantic numerals \"1945\" to commemorate Akiyoko's death. The film then flashes back to 1945, where a voice from the truck's radio read out a declaration of peace and harmony, as the remaining Japanese troops threw their weapons away in the purple sunset. A statistic of World War II casualties rolls up at the credit.\n\nCast\nFu Dalong - Yang\nChie Maeda - Akiyoko\nAnna Dzenilalova - Nadja\n\nReferences\nExternal links\nPurple Sunset on IMDb"}