{"title": "Paik Sun-yup\n", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paik_Sun-yup", "tags": ["Category:1920 births", "Category:2020 deaths", "Category:Ambassadors of South Korea to Canada", "Category:Ambassadors of South Korea to France", "Category:Ambassadors of South Korea to Taiwan", "Category:Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (South Korea)", "Category:Chiefs of Staff of the Army (South Korea)", "Category:Korea under Japanese rule", "Category:Korean collaborators with Imperial Japan", "Category:Korean people of Manchukuo", "Category:People from Nampo", "Category:Short description is different from Wikidata", "Category:South Korean Roman Catholics", "Category:South Korean anti-communists", "Category:South Korean generals", "Category:South Korean military personnel of the Korean War", "Category:Suwon Baek clan", "Category:Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with NLK identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with NTA identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with WORLDCATID identifiers"], "text": "Paik Sun-yup (Korean: \ubc31\uc120\uc5fd; Hanja: \u767d\u5584\u71c1; November 23, 1920 \u2013 July 10, 2020) was a South Korean military officer. He served both Manchukuo and South Korea, the latter during the Korean War.\nPaik is known for his service during the Korean War and for being the first four-star general in the history of the South Korean military. His brother, Paik In-yeop, also served in the Republic of Korea Army during the Korean War, commanding the 17th Independent Regiment at the Battle of Ongjin and again in the Inchon Landings.\n\nEarly life and education\nPaik was born in Kangs\u014f-gun, South P'y\u014fngan, currently the city of Nampo, on November 23, 1920, during a time when Korea was under Japanese rule. He was born the second of three siblings, with an older sister and younger brother, being raised by a widowed mother. In 1925 the Paik family moved to Pyongyang where they lived under extremely poor conditions in a single, rented room. Unable to feed her family, Paik's mother attempted to take the children and commit family suicide by jumping from the Taedong River bridge but was dissuaded from doing so by her older sister.\n\nCareer\nPaik's mother and sister soon took jobs at a rubber factory to pay for his schooling. He attended Mansu Primary School for four years before transferring to Yaksong Primary School. After, he spent five years in Pyongyang Normal School, training to be a teacher in 1939.Instead of getting into teaching, he entered Mukden Military Academy of Manchukuo. After graduation, he became an officer of the Manchukuo Imperial Army, and served in the Gando Special Force. He engaged in guerrilla suppression work in Jiandao (eastern Manchuria, Gando in Korean). He joined the Japanese campaign on northern China for ten months from 1944 to 1945 until its defeat by the Soviet Army.\nAfter the end of World War II he returned to Pyongyang but in December 1945 fled south since rising communists threatened his safety. In South Korea, he was commissioned as a first lieutenant in the Constabulary, the predecessor of the ROK Army. He was committed to build the army, crush communist guerrillas, and purge the army of leftists. However, he did help Park Chung-hee, who was at the time tried as a communist, by persuading President Rhee to commute his sentence and have him released. Paik eventually got him reinstated into the army during the Korean War.\n\nKorean War\nWhen the fighting broke out on June 25, 1950, he was assigned to defend Seoul as the 1st Infantry Division's commanding officer. He finally retreated to South Gyeongsang but made an important contribution to the defense of the Pusan Perimeter, especially to the victory at the village of Dabudong.\nOn the move north, his 1st Division under the United States I Corps became the first to enter Pyongyang on October 19. He was one of the first officers to realize the Chinese entry into the war. He assumed the defense of northwestern Korea but was plagued by a larger Chinese army.\nIn April 1951, Paik was placed in command of the ROK I Corps in charge of eastern Korea. He soon found the South Korean military insufficiently trained; they took intensive training while the battle line was fixed. In July 1951, Paik was elected to represent the ROK military at the Kaesong Truce Talk but failed to attain results.\nIn November, Task Force Paik was set up to destroy communist guerrillas on Jirisan. The campaign, known as Operation Rat Killer, was successfully finished in March 1952. In recognition of the success, he was promoted to Lieutenant General and Task Force Paik was transformed to the new ROK II Corps. Then he was appointed to Army Chief of Staff in July 1952. He devoted himself in building up the ROK Army. In January 1953, he was promoted to the rank of general in the ROK Army; which made him the first 4-star general in the South Korean military.\n\nLater career\nPaik successively filled the positions of commander of the First Field Army, the Army Chief of Staff, and the Chairman for the ROK Joint Chiefs of Staff until his retirement from the army in May 1960. He was fully aware of the political developments taking place in Korea at the time (and privately thought that the army was losing its discipline), but chose not to participate with either side. He was overseas when the May 16 coup occurred.\nHe was appointed as an ambassador to the Republic of China\uff08Taiwan\uff09 in 1960, to France in 1961, and to Canada in 1965. From 1969 to 1971, he served as Minister of Transportation and launched the construction of the Seoul Metropolitan Subway. In 1970 he faced the hijacking of Japan Airlines Flight 351 at Gimpo Airport by the Japanese Red Army. He served as the presidents of two national policy companies in sequence. He participated in the construction of the War Memorial at Yongsan, which opened in 1990.\nPaik is the author of From Pusan to Panmunjom: Wartime Memoirs of the Republic of Korea's First Four-Star General.\nOn January 30, 2019, a group in consisting of retired South Korean generals of which Paik served as an advisor, released a statement criticizing the administration of South Korean President Moon Jae-in and the Comprehensive Military Agreement which was co-signed with North Korea at the September 2018 inter-Korean summit in Pyongyang.He died on July 10, 2020, at the age of 99, four months short of his 100th birthday.\n\nHistorical photos\nSee also\nList of Korea-related topics\nMilitary of South Korea\n\nNotes\nReferences\nPaik, Sun Yup (1992), From Pusan to Panmunjom, Riverside, NJ: Brassey Inc., ISBN 0-02-881002-3\n\nExternal links\n Media related to Paik Sun-yup at Wikimedia Commons"}