{"title": "Toshiro Mifune\n", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toshiro_Mifune", "tags": ["Category:1920 births", "Category:1997 deaths", "Category:20th-century Japanese male actors", "Category:All articles with unsourced statements", "Category:Chinese expatriates in Japan", "Category:Deaths from multiple organ failure", "Category:Disease-related deaths in Japan", "Category:Japanese Methodists", "Category:Japanese male film actors", "Category:Japanese male television actors", "Category:Japanese military personnel of World War II", "Category:Japanese people from Manchukuo", "Category:Male actors from Dalian", "Category:Male actors from Qingdao", "Category:Recipients of the Medal with Purple Ribbon", "Category:Recipients of the Order of the Sacred Treasure, 3rd class", "Category:Short description is different from Wikidata", "Category:Use mdy dates from July 2013", "Category:Volpi Cup for Best Actor winners", "Category:Wikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with BNE identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with CINII identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with NLI identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with NTA identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with TePapa identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with Trove identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers", "Category:Wikipedia articles with WORLDCATID identifiers"], "text": "Toshiro Mifune (\u4e09\u8239\u654f\u90ce, Mifune Toshir\u014d, April 1, 1920 \u2013 December 24, 1997) was a Japanese actor who appeared in over 150 feature films. He is best known for his 16-film collaboration (1948\u20131965) with Akira Kurosawa in such works as Rashomon, Seven Samurai, The Hidden Fortress, Throne of Blood, and Yojimbo. He also portrayed Miyamoto Musashi in Hiroshi Inagaki's Samurai Trilogy and one earlier Inagaki film, Lord Toranaga in the NBC television miniseries Sh\u014dgun, and Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto in three different films.\n\nEarly life\nToshiro Mifune was born on 1 April 1920 in Qingdao, Shandong, China, which was at the time still under Japanese occupation following their capture of the city from German colonial rule during WWI. Hoping to preserve their control of the region, the Japanese government maintained a large garrison and encouraged Japanese citizens to move there with promises of important and rewarding work. Among the Japanese living there before the Republic of China took over the city in 1922 were Toshiro's parents, who were working as Methodist missionaries. Mifune grew up with his parents and two younger siblings in Dalian, Fengtian, and, from 4 to 19 years of age, in Manchukuo.In his youth, Mifune worked in the photography shop of his father Tokuzo, a commercial photographer and importer who had emigrated from northern Japan. After spending the first 19 years of his life in China, as a Japanese citizen, he was drafted into the Imperial Japanese Army Aviation division, where he served in the Aerial Photography unit during World War II.\n\nEarly work\nIn 1947, one of Mifune's friends who worked for the Photography Department of Toho Productions suggested Mifune try out for the Photography Department. He was accepted for a position as an assistant cameraman.\nAt this time, a large number of Toho actors, after a prolonged strike, had left to form their own company, Shin Toho. Toho then organized a \"new faces\" contest to find new talent. Mifune's friends submitted an application and photo, without his knowledge. He was accepted, along with 48 others (out of roughly 4000 applicants), and allowed to take a screen test for Kajir\u014d Yamamoto. Instructed to mime anger, he drew from his wartime experiences. Yamamoto took a liking to Mifune, recommending him to director Senkichi Taniguchi. This led to Mifune's first feature role, in Shin Baka Jidai.\nMifune first encountered director Akira Kurosawa when Toho Studios, the largest film production company in Japan, was conducting a massive talent search, during which hundreds of aspiring actors auditioned before a team of judges. Kurosawa was originally going to skip the event, but showed up when Hideko Takamine told him of one actor who seemed especially promising. Kurosawa later wrote that he entered the audition to see \"a young man reeling around the room in a violent frenzy ... it was as frightening as watching a wounded beast trying to break loose. I was transfixed.\" When Mifune, exhausted, finished his scene, he sat down and gave the judges an ominous stare. He lost the competition but Kurosawa was impressed. \"I am a person rarely impressed by actors,\" he later said. \"But in the case of Mifune I was completely overwhelmed.\"\n\nMarriage\nAmong Mifune's fellow performers, one of the 32 women chosen during the new faces contest was Sachiko Yoshimine.  Eight years Mifune's junior, she came from a respected Tokyo family. They fell in love and Mifune soon proposed marriage.\nDirector Senkichi Taniguchi, with the help of Akira Kurosawa, convinced the Yoshimine family to allow the marriage. The wedding took place in February 1950 at the Aoyama Gakuin Methodist Church.  Yoshimine was a Buddhist but since Mifune was a Christian, they were married in church as per Christian tradition.In November of the same year, their first son, Shir\u014d was born. In 1955, they had a second son, Takeshi. Mifune's daughter Mika was born to his mistress, actress Mika Kitagawa, in 1982.\n\nPeriod of prosperity\nHis imposing bearing, acting range, facility with foreign languages and lengthy partnership with acclaimed director Akira Kurosawa made him the most famous Japanese actor of his time, and easily the best known to Western audiences. He often portrayed samurai or r\u014dnin who were usually coarse and gruff (Kurosawa once explained that the only weakness he could find with Mifune and his acting ability was his \"rough\" voice), inverting the popular stereotype of the genteel, clean-cut samurai. In such films as Seven Samurai and Yojimbo, he played characters who were often comically lacking in manners, but replete with practical wisdom and experience, understated nobility, and, in the case of Yojimbo, unmatched fighting prowess. Sanjuro in particular contrasts this earthy warrior spirit with the useless, sheltered propriety of the court samurai. Kurosawa highly valued Mifune for his effortless portrayal of unvarnished emotion, once commenting that he could convey in only three feet of film an emotion for which the average Japanese actor would require ten feet.\n\nHe was also known for the effort he put into his performances. To prepare for Seven Samurai and Rashomon, Mifune reportedly studied footage of lions in the wild; for \u00c1nimas Trujano, he studied tapes of Mexican actors speaking, so he could recite all his lines in Spanish.\nMifune has been credited as originating the \"roving warrior\" archetype, which he perfected during his collaboration with Kurosawa. His martial arts instructor was Yoshio Sugino of the Tenshin Sh\u014dden Katori Shint\u014d-ry\u016b. Sugino created the fight choreography for films such as Seven Samurai and Yojimbo, and Kurosawa instructed his actors to emulate his movements and bearing.\n\nClint Eastwood was among the first of many actors to adopt this wandering ronin with no name persona for foreign films, which he used to great effect in his Western roles, especially in Spaghetti Westerns directed by Sergio Leone where he played the Man with No Name, a character similar to Mifune's seemingly-nameless ronin in Yojimbo.\nMifune may also be credited with originating the Yakuza archetype, with his performance as a mobster in Kurosawa's Drunken Angel (1948), the first Yakuza film. Most of the sixteen Kurosawa\u2013Mifune films are considered cinema classics. These include Drunken Angel, Stray Dog, Rashomon, Seven Samurai, The Hidden Fortress, High and Low, Throne of Blood (an adaptation of Shakespeare's Macbeth), Yojimbo, and Sanjuro.\nMifune and Kurosawa finally parted ways after Red Beard. Several factors contributed to the rift that ended this career-spanning collaboration. Most of Mifune's contemporaries acted in several different movies throughout the year. Since Red Beard required Mifune to grow a natural beard \u2014 one he had to keep for the entirety of the film's two years of shooting \u2014 he was unable to act in any other films during the production. This put Mifune and his financially strapped production company deeply into debt, creating friction between him and Kurosawa. Although Red Beard played to packed houses in Japan and Europe, which helped Mifune recoup some of his losses, the ensuing years held varying outcomes for both Mifune and Kurosawa. After the film's release, the careers of each man took different arcs: Mifune continued to enjoy success with a range of samurai and war-themed films (Rebellion, Samurai Assassin, The Emperor and a General, among others). In contrast, Kurosawa's output of films dwindled and drew mixed responses. During this time, Kurosawa attempted suicide. In 1980, Mifune experienced popularity with mainstream American audiences through his role as Lord Toranaga in the television miniseries Shogun. Yet Kurosawa did not rejoice in his estranged friend's success, and publicly made derisive remarks about Shogun.According to his daughter, Mifune turned down an offer from George Lucas to play either Darth Vader or Obi-Wan Kenobi.\n\nLater life and death\nEarly in the 1980s, Mifune founded an acting school, Mifune Geijutsu Gakuin (\u4e09\u8239\u82b8\u8853\u5b66\u9662). The school failed after only three years, due to mismanaged finances.Mifune received wide acclaim in the West after playing Toranaga in the 1980 TV miniseries Shogun. However, the series' blunt portrayal of the Japanese shogunate and the greatly abridged version shown in Japan meant that it was not as well received in his homeland.The relationship between Kurosawa and Mifune remained ambivalent. While Kurosawa made some very uncharitable comments about Mifune's acting, he also admitted in Interview magazine that \"All the films that I made with Mifune, without him, they would not exist\". He also presented Mifune with the Kawashita award which he himself had won two years prior. They finally made something of a reconciliation in 1993 at the funeral of their friend Ishir\u014d Honda, though they never collaborated again.\n\nIn 1992, Mifune began suffering from a serious unknown health problem. It has been variously suggested that he destroyed his health with overwork, suffered a heart attack, or experienced a stroke. For whatever reason, he abruptly retreated from public life and remained largely confined to his home, cared for by his estranged wife Sachiko. When she succumbed to pancreatic cancer in 1995, Mifune's physical and mental state began to decline rapidly.On Christmas Eve 1997, he died in Mitaka, Tokyo, of multiple organ failure at the age of 77. He was survived by his two sons, his daughter, a grandson and two granddaughters.\n\nHonors\nMifune won Volpi Cup for Best Actor twice, in 1961 and 1965. Mifune was awarded the Medal of Honor with Purple Ribbon in 1986 and the Order of the Sacred Treasure by the Japanese government in 1993. In 1973 he was a member of the jury at the 8th Moscow International Film Festival. In 1977 he was a member of the jury at the 10th Moscow International Film Festival.On November 14, 2016, Mifune received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his work in the motion pictures industry, located at 6912 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\nPersonal quotations\nOf Akira Kurosawa, Toshiro Mifune said, \"I know. I have never as an actor done anything that I am proud of other than with him\".\nMifune had a kind of talent I had never encountered before in the Japanese film world. It was, above all, the speed with which he expressed himself that was astounding. The ordinary Japanese actor might need ten feet of film to get across an impression; Mifune needed only three. The speed of his movements was such that he said in a single action what took ordinary actors three separate movements to express. He put forth everything directly and boldly, and his sense of timing was the keenest I had ever seen in a Japanese actor. And yet with all his quickness, he also had surprisingly fine sensibilities.\n\nFilmography\nIn 2015, Steven Okazaki released Mifune: The Last Samurai, a documentary  chronicling Mifune's life and career. Due to variations in translation from the Japanese and other factors, there are multiple titles to many of Mifune's films (see IMDB link). The titles shown here are the most common ones used in the United States, with the original Japanese title listed below it in parentheses. Mifune's filmography mainly consists of Japanese productions, unless noted otherwise (see Notes column).\n\nFilms\nTelevision\nAll programs originally aired in Japan except for Sh\u014dgun which aired in the U.S. on NBC in September 1980 before being subsequently broadcast in Japan on TV Asahi from March 30 to April 6, 1981.\n\nNotes\nReferences\nFurther reading\nGalbraith, Stuart, IV (2002). The Emperor and the Wolf: The Lives and Films of Akira Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune. Faber & Faber. ISBN 0-571-19982-8.\n\nExternal links\n\nEnglish:\n\nToshiro Mifune: Biographical details and selected filmography at the British Film Institute\nToshir\u00f4 Mifune on IMDb\nToshiro Mifune interview by Gerald Peary on The Globe and Mail, 6 June 1986Japanese:\n\nOfficial website\nToshiro Mifune at the Japanese Movie Database (in Japanese)"}